---
title: 0.1.0
---

- A new ListParser is provided for specifying comma-separated lists (ignoring
  whitespace around the commas). This `CommaSeparatedListParser` will not be
  used by default, but must explicitly be set on a `@Coat.Config` or
  `@Coat.Param` annotation or via `CoatConfig#registerListParser(ListParser)`.

- BREAKING CHANGE: The generated immutable config files will not have a public
  constructor anymore. Instead a builder will be generated to create config
  objects as well as static `from(…)` factory methods.

- A config class can now be initialized via multiple config sources at once.
  For this the new builder (see above) needs to be used. The order in which the
  sources are applied is defined explicitly when creating the config instance.

- Config values can now be read from environment variables. For that purpose
  a `fromEnvVars()` method is provided as a static factory method as well as
  a method of the generated builder.
  Since environment variables only allow a much more restricted character set
  than config files, a relaxed parsing of config keys is applied in that case.

- BREAKING CHANGE: The `writeExampleConfig(BufferedWriter)` will not be
  generated anymore. If a BufferedWriter is required, this should be applied
  explicitly by the caller. However, as the example config is written all at
  once the benefit of using a BufferedWriter is questionable.

- CoatConfigs without any accessor methods are supported now.
  While a totally empty CoatConfig is rather useless, it is helpful if a
  CoatConfig only comprises multiple embedded configs.
